## Fields

A **field** is a collection of objects which can be added and subtracted, and
further can be multiplied and (except zero) divided. Furthermore, the
multiplication distributes over addition. For example: ``\mathbf{Q}``, the
rational numbers; ``\mathbf{R}``, the real numbers; ``\mathbf{C}``, the complex
numbers.

When a field is contained within another field, e.g.
``\mathbf{Q}\subseteq\mathbf{C}``, we call the larger field a \textbf{field
extension} of the smaller field. Note that the larger field is naturally a
vector space over the smaller field, by only allowing multiplication of elements
of the larger field by elements of the smaller field.

If ``K \subseteq L`` are fields, then an element ``\alpha\in L`` is
**algebraic** over ``K`` if it is the root of some nonzero polynomial with
coefficients in ``K``. For instance ``i`` is a root of ``x^2 + 1`` so ``i`` is
algebraic over ``\mathbf{Q}``. ``\pi`` is **transcendental** (not algebraic)
over ``\mathbf{Q}``.

If ``L`` contains only algebraic elements over ``K``, then ``L`` is an algebraic
extension of ``K``. Otherwise ``L`` is a transcendental extension. For instance
``\mathbf{Q} \subseteq \mathbf{C}`` is transcendental, whereas ``\mathbf{R}
\subseteq \mathbf{C}`` is algebraic. Can you see why?

If ``a`` is algebraic over ``K`` then the **minimal polynomial** of ``a`` over
``K`` is the smallest degree nonzero monic polynomial with coefficients in K
with ``a`` as a root.

Let ``K \subseteq L`` be an extension. Then ``[L : K] = \operatorname{dim}_K L``
is the **degree** of ``L`` over ``K``. We will use that ``[K(a) : K] =
\operatorname{deg}_K a``.

If ``K \subseteq L`` are fields, and ``S \subseteq L`` is a set, then ``K(S)``
is the smallest subfield of ``L`` (i.e. ``K(S)\subseteq L``) such that ``S
\subseteq K(S)`` and ``K \subseteq K(S)``. For example

```math
\mathbf{Q}(\sqrt[3]{2}) =
\{a + b\sqrt[3]{2} + c\sqrt[3]{2}^2 : (a, b, c) \in \mathbf{Q}^3\}
```

(Exercise: Check that this is a field, and that it's smallest.)

## Galois Theory

From now on, we mostly work with ``\mathbf{Q}\subseteq\mathbf{C}``.

If ``p`` is a nonzero polynomial with coefficients in ``\mathbf{Q}``, then the
**splitting field** of ``p`` is the smallest field containing all roots of
``p``. For example the splitting field of ``x^2 + 1`` is

```math
\mathbf{Q}(i) = \{a + bi : (a, b) \in \mathbf{Q}^2\}
```

Let ``K \subseteq L``. An **automorphism** ``\varphi`` of the extension ``L/K``
is a map that preserves the field structure and the extension structure. (That
is, it fixes all elements of ``K``, and is compatible with the field
operations.) More concretely ``\varphi: L \to L`` is a bijection such that
``\varphi(ab^{-1}-c) = \varphi(a)\varphi(b)^{-1} - \varphi(c)`` for ``(a, b, c)
\in L^3`` and ``\varphi(k) = k`` for ``k\in K``.

If ``\mathbf{Q} \subseteq K \subseteq L \subseteq \mathbf{C}`` with ``L``
finite-dimensional over ``K`` as a vector space, and ``L`` is the splitting
field for some ``f(x)\in K[x]``, then we say ``L/K`` is **Galois**. Furthermore
we define ``\operatorname{Gal}(L/K)`` the **Galois group** of ``L/K`` to be the
set of all automorphisms of ``L/K``.

If ``\mathbf{Q} \subseteq K \subseteq L \subseteq \mathbf{C}`` with ``L/K``
Galois, then the **fundamental theorem of Galois theory** says:

  - there is a correspondence between subfields of ``L`` that contain ``K``
    and the subgroups of ``\operatorname{Gal}(L/K)``
  - the normal subgroups of ``\operatorname{Gal}(L/K)`` correspond to Galois
    extensions of ``K``
  - ``|\operatorname{Gal}(L/K)| = [K : L]``
